In full support of President Ramaphosa’s outlined approach to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA) has demonstrated its commitment to implementing the necessary protocols by instituting various internal precautionary measures, among them the introduction of virtual events to replace face-to-face gatherings, travel restrictions and flexible work-from-home policies. As the voice of the industry, SAVCA will offer its members guidance in
navigating the challenging economic landscape that lies ahead through a weekly
webinar series. Tanya van Lill, SAVCA CEO, says
that not only does COVID-19 affect citizens at large; it also has a ripple effect
on markets – both public and private. “We suspect that the impact it may have
on the industry relates to our members reviewing their investment objectives; sharing
of additional information with their investee companies, investors and the
broader community at large virtually and more frequently; and considering the
impact of the crisis on aspects such as valuations, investee company supply
chains and finding creative ways to stay connected given the limitation on
travel. “This is a critical time not only for our country, but globally. Global
markets are facing great uncertainty and we strongly encourage our members and
their portfolio companies to take the necessary precautions, as outlined by
President Ramaphosa’s address to the nation.” Van Lill encourages investment professionals
to download the complimentary “Africa Private Equity News” app, of which SAVCA
is a media partner, to stay apprised of industry developments and proactive
measures that can be taken. “To stay updated with credible and factual details
around COVID-19 in South Africa, we have also encouraged our members and
stakeholders to join the Government’s automated WhatsApp group by adding the
number – 060 012 3456 – to their contacts and typing “Hi” in the message block,”
she adds. “While the road ahead will certainly not be one without challenges, we at SAVCA will continue to closely monitor the
situation and promise to do all we can to protect our people and the industry at large. Private Equity and
Venture Capital has been known to be agile and flexible, and there isn’t a
better time like the present for our industry to demonstrate this,” van Lill
concludes. -ENDS- About
SAVCA: The Southern
African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA) is the industry
body and public policy advocate for private equity and venture capital in
Southern Africa. SAVCA represents about R171 billion in assets under management
through 181 members that form part of the private equity and venture capital
ecosystem. SAVCA promotes the Southern Africa venture capital and private
equity asset classes on a range of matters affecting the industry. SAVCA also
provides relevant and insightful research, offers training on private equity
and creates meaningful networking opportunities for industry players. For more, visit our website: http://www.savca.co.za/ Follow us on Twitter @SAVCAssociation and LinkedIn BECOME A MEMBER   |   MEDIA & NEWS   |   DOWNLOADS Contact SAVCA +27 11 268 0041 info@savca.co.za Copyright © 2019 Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA)