News of Edcon’s cash crisis and inability to pay suppliers is a clear warning of the serious economic damage the COVID-19 crisis is causing. Edcon has said it will work on a reopening strategy, but may fail to find a viable route without Government and other support. Edcon’s current position is not unique and will likely be experienced by many other companies within the economy. As an industry that manages R175-billion of investments in
private companies, mostly small- and medium-sized businesses, on behalf of
pension funds and other investors, the private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC)
industry is at the front line in working with companies to confront the
challenges presented by the crisis. It is our responsibility to help these companies confront
the current health emergency by expanding capacity in needed supplies and
working to ensure public health and safety, and access to required resources. Additionally,
supporting employees to protect jobs and manage the impact of the measures to
be taken; supporting the economy by protecting supply chains and shifting the
strategies of companies to support the public effort; and preparing investee
companies for a return to growth and contribution to economic recovery. We are
also working to support companies’ balance sheets in order to survive the
crisis. The economy urgently needs policy interventions to enable it
to survive the crisis. The South African Venture Capital and Private Equity
Industry Association (SAVCA) has prepared the attached paper detailing
proposals to consider. These include: •            For the
Unemployment Insurance Fund to be used to help companies retain workers on
payroll during the crisis while they cannot work; •            The
Solidarity Fund to be leveraged through a guarantee scheme to enable the lending
industry to support individuals and businesses through concessionary loans to
bridge the period of the crisis and ensure they return to full production at
the end of it; and •            Business
and end consumers, where possible, to keep up purchasing and expenditure to
minimise the knock-on effect on the broader ecosystem. Priority should be given
to shoring up vulnerable labour and communities as well as suppliers and
customers so that we can give effect to a sharper recovery on the other side of
the crisis. We stand ready to work with policy makers, other business
groupings, labour and civil society to identify interventions that can best use
our scarce resources to defend the economy during this challenging time. More details are contained in the position paper which can
be accessed here: https://savca.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/SAVCA-Paper-Covid-19-1.pdf For more details, please contact: Tanya van Lill CEO SAVCA T: +27 11 268 0041 E: tanya@savca.co.za W: www.savca.co.za BECOME A MEMBER   |   MEDIA & NEWS   |   DOWNLOADS Contact SAVCA +27 11 268 0041 info@savca.co.za Copyright © 2019 Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA)