The Covid-19 epidemic is an unprecedented public health and
economic crisis. The private equity and venture capital industry manages
R175-billion of investments in private companies, mostly small- and
medium-sized businesses, on behalf of pension funds and other investors. We are
at the front line of working with particularly small- and -medium sized
companies to confront the crisis. Our members are urgently engaged with their portfolio
companies to support them in facing the challenges presented by the pandemic.
This includes both managing market disruption and helping companies rapidly
shift strategy to better cater for public needs. However, while the industry
has experienced difficult economic cycles, the economic challenges presented by
the pandemic are unprecedented. Our members are specialists in helping
companies adapt to change and manage challenges. We will bring all the tools in
our arsenal to help companies problem solve as active owners of businesses
working closely with management teams. President Cyril Ramaphosa and his ministers have taken
decisive leadership in confronting the pandemic, with the support of civil
society, business, opposition politicians and others. The SA Venture Capital
and Private Equity Industry Association (SAVCA) has produced a paper to
contribute to policy thinking, as requested by National Treasury among others. In it, the industry calls for: •            UIF to be
used to help companies retain workers on payroll during the crisis when they
cannot work •            The
Solidarity Fund to be leveraged through a guarantee scheme to enable to lending
industry to support individuals and businesses through concessionary loans to
bridge the period of the crisis to ensure they return to full production at the
end of it •            Business
and end consumers to, where possible, keep up purchasing and expenditure to
minimise the knock-on effect on the broader ecosystem. Priority should be given
to shoring up vulnerable labour and communities as well as suppliers and
customers so that we can give effect to a sharper recovery on the other side of
the crisis. The private equity and venture capital industry is also
working hard with investee companies to: •            Confront
the health emergency by expanding capacity in needed supplies and working to
ensure public health and safety and access to resources needed during this
period •            Support
workers to protect jobs and manage the impact of the measures to be taken •            Support the economy by protecting supply chains and shifting the strategies of companies to support the public effort. •            Prepare
its investee companies for a return to growth and contribution to economic
recovery. Full details are contained in the attached report. For more details, please contact: Tanya van Lill CEO SAVCA T: +27 11 268 0041 E: tanya@savca.co.za W: www.savca.co.za BECOME A MEMBER   |   MEDIA & NEWS   |   DOWNLOADS Contact SAVCA +27 11 268 0041 info@savca.co.za Copyright © 2019 Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA)