Angel
Investors are increasingly making a difference to the global start-up scene by
helping promising entrepreneurs start and grow companies. The African Angel Academy
(AAA) has now been established to help accelerate angel investing in Africa.
Through the creation of an angel investing curriculum,  tools, and mentorship from established
angels, all available through an online portal, AAA hopes to reach a wide audience
of aspiring angel investors. The Academy aims to contribute to the need for a
stronger angel investing community across the continent, which provides
mentorship, knowledge and capital to early-stage businesses. Pilot Program AAA hopes to
grow the number of investors and investor groups who provide much-needed seed
capital and mentor support to promising entrepreneurs, and to drive economic
growth across the continent. AAA is now accepting applications for its pilot
programme. We are looking for 50 new angels (five groups of 10 angels, with a
minimum of 4 female angels per group) to train over the next 12 months from 5
different countries in Southern Africa.
This programme is open to both newly formed groups as well as individuals. As an angel participating in this
programme, you will be provided with support, tools and knowledge to become
active angel investors. This will be done through workshops, online videos and
tools as well as virtual mentorship for the groups. Who should apply? This programme is suited to new angels who
may have made one or two investments without a formal process or systems, or to
aspiring angel investors (i.e. you have the capital and time to consider
investing into local start-ups during this project). Typically an angel
investor is someone who has been a successful entrepreneur and would like to
support new entrepreneurs; is a successful professional and would like to
contribute both money and expertise to a start-up; or is a retired business
person, who has the time and capital to invest into younger entrepreneurs. Currently, the project aims to work with
groups of angels from South African,
Zambia, Mauritius, Tanzania, Botswana or Namibia (the final 5 countries will be
selected based on the application numbers). We we are looking for angels who will commit to participating in this programme, by providing data (via surveys), attending workshops (2 x 1-day workshops), accessing online content (approximately 10 hours) and participating in mentorship sessions (4 x 1 hour) for the next 12 months (February 2020 to March 2021). In addition, angels will need to organise a venue and catering for two one day workshops, and cover any travel should they be based outside of the capital city. We are also looking for angels or organizations to be coordinators or host partners to play this role and support the project. Applications are open here and will close by 14 February 2020. The content that will be covered both
online and through in-country workshops includes topic such as angel investing
strategy & mandate, deal sourcing, due diligence, deal structuring,
valuations, negotiations, teams, post Investment & value addition, exits
and angel Group Management & Structures. Partners The partners in this pilot are Fraser
Consulting, a strategy and innovation consultancy, based in South Africa; the
African Business Angel Network (ABAN), promoting and training angel investors
across the continent, based in Mauritius; and Viktoria Business Angel Network
(VBAN), promoting angel investment in East Africa, based in Kenya, who have a
track record of developing and delivering content together. These three organizations are already
actively building a network of early-stage investors at a regional level. This
pilot programme has been generously supported by the Southern Africa Innovation
and Support (SAIS) programme. About SAIS SAIS 2 The Southern Africa Innovation
Support Programme (SAIS) is supported by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs (MFA)
of Finland, in partnership with the Ministries responsible for Science,
Technology and Innovation of Botswana, Namibia, South Africa, Tanzania and
Zambia, and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Secretariat. SAIS 2 is a regional initiative that
supports the growth of new businesses through strengthening innovation
ecosystems and the promotion of cross-border collaboration between innovation
role-players in Southern Africa. The Programme focuses on strengthening
early-stage enterprises and youth entrepreneurs, connecting innovation
ecosystems, and promotion innovations serving socially and economically
disadvantaged populations. Contact Details BECOME A MEMBER   |   MEDIA & NEWS   |   DOWNLOADS Contact SAVCA +27 11 268 0041 info@savca.co.za Copyright © 2019 Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA)